TRADES-RUNTIME · UNIVERSAL DROP-IN + LOCAL HUMAN DESK                                                                                          TR-DESK-2026-09-25




 Receipt ID TR-DESK-2026-09-25 · 2026-09-25
 Identity: Aziel Eliab only.
 Amends the inbound surface of TR-BYO-2026-09-17. Does not amend the eight BYO laws.
 live_backends remains false. Pages remain off. Option C pilot remains not started. Option D remains not started.


 What changed
 0.4.0 adds two surfaces on the operator's machine.

 1. Universal auto drop-in.
    servicetitan and probooks stay named peer classes.
    trades-app is a first-class inbound kind for field-service, job, pricebook, customer, and appointment
    shaped exports from tools in the same class (Jobber, Housecall Pro, Service Fusion, QuickBooks Online
    and Desktop-shaped book exports, generic CSV/JSON).
    Detection is schema sniff plus mapping profiles. A file that still matches ServiceTitan or ProBooks
    stays on that peer. Explicit sourceKind wins when it is an authorized class.
    Admit path is the existing FragGate wall and the read-only shadow ingest.
    Trust default MEDIUM. Hash the payload. live:false. write:false. verification UNVERIFIED.
    Wrapper admission is not verification.
    scrape, central-dump, and hosted-upload refuse.
    Drop folders:
      data/inbound/servicetitan/
      data/inbound/probooks/
      data/inbound/trades-app/
    Optional data/inbound/local.json (gitignored) may name paths and read-endpoint hints.
    Hints are not fetched. No tokens in the repo. No hosted uploader.

 2. Local human operator desk.
    Command: npx tsx src/cli.ts desk
    Binds 127.0.0.1:4174. Human surface. Agent MCP stays a read-only bridge without this chrome.
    Charts (jobs/completions, capacity), metrics, alerts, mission-board pace, fulfillment rail.
    Scores already in the domain: mission pace from openMissionDay, booking block from recommendBlock,
    evidence trust band, verification status. Prediction confidence is withheld on a BYO drop.
    The recorded synthetic shadow-day confidence is shown only on the empty-folder demo and is labeled
    as a fixture, not measured accuracy.
    Empty inbound renders the synthetic demo. A local drop switches the label to BYO-admitted
    (or BYO-admitted synthetic drill when every file declares synthetic:true).
    SSE refreshes from local folders and the mission clock. No write-back.

 Public Worker
 trades-runtime.vibelock.workers.dev may cite the local desk command at / and /local-desk.
 That page is install notes. It does not host tenant metrics or a fake live company board.
 PRODUCT_VERSION on the Worker source moves to 0.4.0 with the package. The deployed Worker
 updates when an operator deploys it. This repo does not deploy it.


 Laws held
    Law                         This cut

    BYO, not central dump       Drop folders and the desk stay on the operator machine.
    Per-runtime isolate         Desk reads one local config. It does not mix tenants.
    Both sources first-class    servicetitan and probooks remain peers. trades-app joins them.
    FragGate still admits       Sniffed rows become evidence packets only through admitInbound.
    Wrapper ≠ verified          treatAsVerified is ignored. Status stays UNVERIFIED.
    Writes refused              No POST/PUT/PATCH client for ST, ProBooks, or trades-app.
    Credentials local           local.json has paths and hints. No cloud account field.
    No tenant data on Pages     Pages stay off. The public Worker does not store exports.


 Demo
 npm run drop-in:demo copies synthetic fixtures into a temp inbound tree, admits, hashes, and proves writes throw.
 npm run desk opens the human page. With empty folders the page says synthetic demo.
